cv.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Curriculum Vitae
---
<button class="btn btn-secondary">Work Experience</button>
[Work Experience](#work-experience){: .btn}
[Projects](#projects){: .btn}
[Education](#education){: .btn}
[About](#about){: .btn}
[Skills](#skills){: .btn}

# Work Experience
## Bird Conservation Biologist ([NC Wildlife Resources Commission](https://ncwildlife.org))
![Biologists surveying an island with tern nest in the foreground](/img/ternnest_scott_anderson.jpg "Biologists survey an island for tern nests in North Carolina")
*2010-Present*
Serve as statewide nongame bird biologist for North Carolina.
- Provide direction for statewide bird conservation initiatives, participate in regional, national efforts
- Serve on US North American Bird Conservation Initiative human dimensions subcommittee, HD Coordinator advisory team
- Chair six agency NC Birding Trail (NCBT) Steering Committee, supervise social media & outreach, coordinate activities (including Strategic Plan Development)
![Eastern Bluebird landing on nest box](/img/20140520_eable_box_landing.jpg "Eastern Bluebird lands on suburban nestbox in Raleigh, NC")
- Organize annual NC Partners in Flight (NCPIF) meetings
- Develop, maintain NCBT & NCPIF websites
- Assist with application for, administration of multiple Federal grants annually
- Co-facilitate NCWRC Wildlife Leadership Development Program – experiential training to identify & address adaptive challenges
- Co-PI for Bachman’s sparrow & riparian breeding bird projects
- Consult on state species listing, NEPA documentation, bird-related policy development
- Serve on internal GIS Committee, Bird Conservation Leadership Team
- Chaired committee for 2012 Southeast Partners in Flight Meeting
- Chaired multi-organization Wildlife Action Plan Bird Taxa Team
- Served as Secretary & Waterbird Committee chair on Atlantic Flyway Nongame Technical Section

## GIS/Database Manager ([NC Wildlife Resources Commission](https://ncwildlife.org))
*2004-2010*
 - Led team to identify, address GIS needs for the Division of Wildlife Management and beyond
 - Headed production of Game Lands Map Book annually
 - Worked across agency to re-design Map Book production process; annual cost savings of $200K
 - Initiated and completed effort to standardize databases for collection, storage of biological data
 - Provide agency-wide database, GIS, GPS technical support

## Graduate Research Assistant ([Oregon State University](https://oregonstate.edu))
*2000-2003*
- Studied foraging ecology, chick provisioning of Caspian terns in the Columbia River estuary
- Led crews of 10-15 to capture terns for radio-tag attachment, morphological measurement, blood collection
- Supervised field assistant • Mapped, analyzed off-colony distribution of breeding birds

## Research Assistant ([Oregon State University](https://oregonstate.edu))
*1998*
Banding, radio-tracking Burrowing Owls near Taft, CA

## Computer Software Trainer (Texas A&M University)
*1998-1999*
Taught novice computer skills in College Station, TX

## Information Systems Manager (Traveler's Insurance)
*1995-1997*
Created, maintained MS Access and Lotus Notes databases in Hartford, CT

## Staff Scientist (Yankee Fleet Whale Watching)
*1995*
Engaged public on 4-hour whale watch tours in Gloucester, MA

## Research Assistant (Cetacean Research Unit)
*1994*
Collected cetacean behavioral data in Gloucester, MA

## Research Assistant/Volunteer (AMNH Southwestern Research Station)
*1994*
Surveyed for Northern Goshawk near Portal, AZ

## Wildlife Technician (USDA Forest Service)
*1994*
Surveyed for Three-toed Woodpecker, Flammulated Owl, and Northern Goshawk near Dutch John, UT

## Outing Club Officer (University of Delaware)
*1991-1994*

Developed team atmosphere and encouraged problem-solving among novices on rock climbing, backpacking, caving, and canoeing excursions in the Mid-Atlantic Region


# Projects
## [North Carolina Birding Trail](http://ncbirdingtrail.org)
![Binoculars, North Carolina Birding Trail Guide and backpack](/img/ncbt_bins_backpack.jpg "North Carolina Birding Trail")

## [North Carolina Partners in Flight](http://ncpif.org)

## [North Carolina Conservation Connections](http://wiki.ncpif.org)

## [US NABCI](https://nabci-us.org)

## [Partners in Flight Eastern Working Group](https://partnersinflight.org/eastern)

## [Partners in Flight](https://partnersinflight.org)

## Bachman's Sparrow North Carolina Distribution

## Riparian Breeding Bird Surveys
![Bird surveys from canoe](/img/canoe_stern_rapids.jpg "Riparian Breeding Bird Surveys on the Deep River, NC")

## [NC Bird Atlas](https://ncbirdatlas.org) (in progress)

## Game Lands Map Book

# Skills
- Certified PADI Scuba

## Web Technologies
Proficient in a wide variety of web technologies:
- HTML, CSS, Javascript
- Wordpress, PHP (content creation and management, [theme and plugin development](#north-carolina-birding-trail))
- eBird API

## GIS
- ArcGIS (desktop, server, pro, online)
- Leaflet, Mapbox, and Google Maps APIs

## Data Analyses
- Software (decreasing recency): R, WinBUGS,
- Methods: basic (t-test, chi-square, regression), model comparison, hierarchical modeling

## Programming Languages
- Python, R, Javascript, PHP

# About
- Guitar
- Programming
## Photography
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")
![Backpacker passing a trail marker on the Appalachian Trail near Elk Gardens, NC](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Backpacking the AT at Elk Gardens, NC")
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")

Commit message:

color changes, new cv page layout template

cv.md, after:

---
layout: cv
title: Curriculum Vitae
---
<button class="btn btn-secondary">Work Experience</button>
[Work Experience](#work-experience){: .btn}
[Projects](#projects){: .btn}
[Education](#education){: .btn}
[About](#about){: .btn}
[Skills](#skills){: .btn}

# Work Experience
## Bird Conservation Biologist ([NC Wildlife Resources Commission](https://ncwildlife.org))
![Biologists surveying an island with tern nest in the foreground](/img/ternnest_scott_anderson.jpg "Biologists survey an island for tern nests in North Carolina")
*2010-Present*
Serve as statewide nongame bird biologist for North Carolina.
- Provide direction for statewide bird conservation initiatives, participate in regional, national efforts
- Serve on US North American Bird Conservation Initiative human dimensions subcommittee, HD Coordinator advisory team
- Chair six agency NC Birding Trail (NCBT) Steering Committee, supervise social media & outreach, coordinate activities (including Strategic Plan Development)
![Eastern Bluebird landing on nest box](/img/20140520_eable_box_landing.jpg "Eastern Bluebird lands on suburban nestbox in Raleigh, NC")
- Organize annual NC Partners in Flight (NCPIF) meetings
- Develop, maintain NCBT & NCPIF websites
- Assist with application for, administration of multiple Federal grants annually
- Co-facilitate NCWRC Wildlife Leadership Development Program – experiential training to identify & address adaptive challenges
- Co-PI for Bachman’s sparrow & riparian breeding bird projects
- Consult on state species listing, NEPA documentation, bird-related policy development
- Serve on internal GIS Committee, Bird Conservation Leadership Team
- Chaired committee for 2012 Southeast Partners in Flight Meeting
- Chaired multi-organization Wildlife Action Plan Bird Taxa Team
- Served as Secretary & Waterbird Committee chair on Atlantic Flyway Nongame Technical Section

## GIS/Database Manager ([NC Wildlife Resources Commission](https://ncwildlife.org))
*2004-2010*
 - Led team to identify, address GIS needs for the Division of Wildlife Management and beyond
 - Headed production of Game Lands Map Book annually
 - Worked across agency to re-design Map Book production process; annual cost savings of $200K
 - Initiated and completed effort to standardize databases for collection, storage of biological data
 - Provide agency-wide database, GIS, GPS technical support

## Graduate Research Assistant ([Oregon State University](https://oregonstate.edu))
*2000-2003*
- Studied foraging ecology, chick provisioning of Caspian terns in the Columbia River estuary
- Led crews of 10-15 to capture terns for radio-tag attachment, morphological measurement, blood collection
- Supervised field assistant • Mapped, analyzed off-colony distribution of breeding birds

## Research Assistant ([Oregon State University](https://oregonstate.edu))
*1998*
Banding, radio-tracking Burrowing Owls near Taft, CA

## Computer Software Trainer (Texas A&M University)
*1998-1999*
Taught novice computer skills in College Station, TX

## Information Systems Manager (Traveler's Insurance)
*1995-1997*
Created, maintained MS Access and Lotus Notes databases in Hartford, CT

## Staff Scientist (Yankee Fleet Whale Watching)
*1995*
Engaged public on 4-hour whale watch tours in Gloucester, MA

## Research Assistant (Cetacean Research Unit)
*1994*
Collected cetacean behavioral data in Gloucester, MA

## Research Assistant/Volunteer (AMNH Southwestern Research Station)
*1994*
Surveyed for Northern Goshawk near Portal, AZ

## Wildlife Technician (USDA Forest Service)
*1994*
Surveyed for Three-toed Woodpecker, Flammulated Owl, and Northern Goshawk near Dutch John, UT

## Outing Club Officer (University of Delaware)
*1991-1994*

Developed team atmosphere and encouraged problem-solving among novices on rock climbing, backpacking, caving, and canoeing excursions in the Mid-Atlantic Region


# Projects
## [North Carolina Birding Trail](http://ncbirdingtrail.org)
![Binoculars, North Carolina Birding Trail Guide and backpack](/img/ncbt_bins_backpack.jpg "North Carolina Birding Trail")
Coordinator of this project designed to encourage appreciation of birds and the natural world.
- provide web resources for sites across the state

## [North Carolina Partners in Flight](http://ncpif.org)


## [US NABCI](https://nabci-us.org)

## [Partners in Flight Eastern Working Group](https://partnersinflight.org/eastern)

## [Partners in Flight](https://partnersinflight.org)

## Bachman's Sparrow North Carolina Distribution

## Riparian Breeding Bird Surveys
![Bird surveys from canoe](/img/canoe_stern_rapids.jpg "Riparian Breeding Bird Surveys on the Deep River, NC")

## [NC Bird Atlas](https://ncbirdatlas.org) (in progress)

## [North Carolina Conservation Connections](http://wiki.ncpif.org) (in development)
Web resource for connecting bird conservation projects, species, habitats, organizations, and plans.

## Game Lands Map Book

# Skills
- Certified PADI Scuba

## Web Technologies
Proficient in a wide variety of web technologies:
- HTML, CSS, Javascript
- Wordpress, PHP (content creation and management, [theme and plugin development](#north-carolina-birding-trail))
- eBird API

## GIS
- ArcGIS (desktop, server, pro, online)
- Leaflet, Mapbox, and Google Maps APIs

## Data Analyses
- Software (decreasing recency): R, WinBUGS,
- Methods: basic (t-test, chi-square, regression), model comparison, hierarchical modeling

## Programming Languages
- Python, R, Javascript, PHP

# About
- Guitar
- Programming
## Photography
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")
![Backpacker passing a trail marker on the Appalachian Trail near Elk Gardens, NC](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Backpacking the AT at Elk Gardens, NC")
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")
![Trees in fog](/img/fot_trees2.jpg "Foggy trees near Corvallis, OR")
